well howdy there internet people it's
beau again
so today we're going to
talk about a question i've been getting
a lot ever since i did that uh
video about the biden harris campaign in
that video i drew a distinction between
two groups that are part of the
democratic party
and i've had a lot of people ask me
about it and asked me to clarify it and
ask me to explain the difference
it's a complicated subject so
rather than making an academic thing
that
is something we need a phd for
um i'm just going to give you examples
you know and we're going to talk about
who's a liberal
and who's a leftist on the american
political stage
so starting off with the leftists
we have
[Music]
uh
oh bo it's 3 a.m
hey maxie you're a radical leftist is
biden your people
is he a leftist what like
american left or everyone else is left
you're left
my god no he's barely even a democrat
he might as well be a republican with
his record okay what about harris
also no how about pelosi definitely not
nope nope no no
no no definitely not no i don't know
what to tell you
no there's no no
are you telling me we don't have any
leftists any radical leftists what about
aoc and bernie
they're social democrats that call
themselves democratic socialists
so still no okay so
what what is a leftist well not a
gatekeeper
but a leftist is generally someone who
understands that we
cannot work within this unjust system
dominated by
elites by the bourgeoisie a leftist is
someone who wants to
change the entire system that oppresses
us
not just make some minor tweaks to it or
try to put a happy face on it like the
liberals or democrats try to do
what's a social democrat well social
democrats try to fight for more
social programs to give people greater
equality of opportunity
under this ruthless ruthless system to
try and
you know fight some of the excesses of
neoliberal economics you can think about
the nordic model so
norway denmark that kind of thing where
where people have health care they have
education and just
generally more of the things that you
need to survive uh
more so than under ruthless free market
capitalism anyway
so i don't know if we're thinking about
a continuum
then they're definitely more to the left
than democrats but
i don't know if they're they're really
leftists okay how about a socialist
now a socialist knows that social
democracy is
never enough it will always be rolled
back and there's
frankly very little chance that we're
gonna get to a radically transformed
society through
bourgeois elections where both major
parties represent the elites
and not the people so a socialist
wants an entirely different system one
based not around profit generation or
endless growth but a system where
workers are in control of their own
workplaces
they're not being exploited for their
labor to make people like
jeff bezos trillionaires well then
what's a communist
well communism is actually a stateless
classless society
so a communist is someone who is
fighting for that world fighting for our
economy to be democratized fighting for
everyone to be guaranteed the
necessities of their existence like
housing
education health care food community
and we work together to produce things
based around need
not around profit generation not around
making people
mega rich you know it's a world where
people are
free individuals not shackled by wage
servitude to
a capitalist class that owns everything
and is keeping it from us frankly
all right what about a marxist well a
marxist is basically somebody
fighting for that world fighting to move
through the stages of
socialism to full communism or a marxist
is someone who uses marxist economic
analysis to understand the world because
marx's capital let me tell you
a gift truly it's you know it's it's a
bit of a long read
but it's it's very it's indispensable
for understanding the economy and the
way things are in the world today
okay what about a democratic socialist
as opposed to a social democrat
hmm see this is a bit of a confusing
term because a lot of people who call
themselves democratic socialists
are really pushing for social democratic
policies
so i would say in the mainstream in the
media
people like aoc they're really pushing
for social democratic policies they're
pushing for greater social programs
to curb some of the worst excesses of
neoliberalism
but there are people who do call
themselves democratic socialists and
what they mean by that is that they're
down for a socialist transformation of
society
but they think that we can get there by
just voting for it
at the ballot box instead of more
militant forms of direct action
okay clear as mud what's uh the
difference between a liberal
and a leftist well liberals think that
we can put a
happy face on capitalism they think the
status quo is
generally fine they're just looking for
a return to normalcy
a return to everyone just being
exploited in silence and not really
knowing or making a fuss about it right
they don't see much of a problem with
neoliberalism or neoliberal
globalization
or exploitation they think that if we
can just make a few small tweaks
a few small tweaks that's all all it'll
take and then we'll be good right but
but leftists left us know that the whole
system
is corrupt the whole system is the
problem the contradictions of capitalism
will always
erode any of the good tweaks that we try
to make
under this broader system and it'll
eventually just
keep funneling profits into fewer and
fewer hands
and then those people those few people
who have amassed
all of this wealth well they're going to
have an undue
influence over our democratic processes
and all of our institutions
and so unsurprisingly they're just gonna
keep fashioning our political economy
in a way that serves them not the people
not the planet
so i mean i think that that's really the
main difference
can a leftist support capitalism uh
i'm gonna go ahead and gatekeep here and
say no
what do you think the most important
leftist idea is
for people to know about that they're
not scary they're
they're not even really that radical i
mean they just
make the most sense i mean what's scary
is letting the status quo continue
what's scary is
sitting back and feeling helpless
watching
both major political parties just
continue to let people drown in
poverty to be crushed under unpayable
debts
to not be able to access adequate health
care etc i mean there are
millions of people who stand to become
homeless very soon because we have an
economic system that
sees the necessities of life as
commodities
and not social rights and and who
benefits who benefits from all of that
misery of the people it's the
capitalists
it's always the capitalists and with
automation
with outsourcing with pandemics now
putting people out of work
it just doesn't make sense to have a
class of owners
and a class of laborers underneath them
who are
scrambling and fighting each other for
scraps
we have the infrastructure we have the
technology we have
the resources we have the money to make
sure that
everyone is taken care of right now and
we're just not doing it
because that would mean that some of the
most richest people the richest richest
people at the very top
might become ever so slightly less rich
so to me that's that's absolutely
unbelievable
anyway it's just a thought you all have
a good night